When you think of Roman Polanski, the best films of the last century come to mind: "Rosemary's Baby" and "The Ninth Gate." Who would have thought that at the twilight of his career, this genius would make a film about politics, throwing mud at Tony Blair, Condoleezza Rice, and mocking the entire US political system? This film is a brilliant challenge to a duel. Polanski took a scandalous book as the basis and made it even more scandalous. But the film is not remarkable for its scandalousness but for its soul. Polanski took revenge on the US for wanting to imprison him. He is forced to hide and will probably never make another movie. But in any case, his swan song succeeded.
The film tells the story of a man whose name is not revealed throughout the movie because he is a "ghostwriter," or simply a "literary ghost," writing books for others. But one day, for a huge amount of money, James Belushi (bald!) himself offers him to write the memoirs of a former US Prime Minister. Upon accepting the job, Ewan McGregor has no idea how far he will go...
The main feature of the film is the parallel between the fictional Prime Minister Lang and the real Prime Minister Tony Blair. Their entire political careers and half of their biographies are absolutely identical. Throughout the film, Polanski mocks everything: terrorists, conspiracies, and the CIA. But the film, by genre, is a deep thriller that almost turns into an investigation. It keeps you in suspense and doesn't let go until the end, and even the humor over all the subtexts is on point. The synthesis of genres here is rather a plus.
From a technical point of view, everything is excellent: the cinematography is beyond praise: authentic America, rainy noir landscapes, and a lighthouse... Filmed brilliantly. The editing is a bit lacking, but that can be forgiven. The music is delightful: it's beautiful, light, and not pompous.
In the end, Roman Polanski, who used to fight against Satan, fascists, and bandits, decided to battle with politics. And his last duel is many times better than the previous ones over the past decade. To trample everyone so clearly, so quickly, and so accurately, and to make a brilliant film—only he could do it. Thank you for that. Watch good movies.
